# SMARtYpants
#### Video Demo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=30PbOV303ps (sped-up version)
#### Description:
My project is a web-based application created using Flask, which incorporates JavaScript, Python, HTML, CSS and SQL.

My templates directory contains 10 HTML files. layout.html contains references to external style sheet files enclosed in <link>  elements, as well as the "skeleton" of each webpage. The other HTML files extend layout.html via jinja syntax.

register.html contains a form with 3 input elements, 'username', 'password' and 'confirm password'. The form can be submitted via the 'POST' method to the route '/register', afterwhich the code in app.py runs. If any input is empty, or the password and the confirmation don't match, or the username provided already exists, the apology function defined in helper.py will run which redirects the user to the apology.html page with the respective error message, returning a status of 400. Else, the username and hashed password will be inserted into the users table in final.project.db, a sqlite3 database, and the user will be redirected to the login page via the '/login' route with method 'GET'. If the user clicks on the 'register' list item in the navigation bar, he will be directed to the register page via the 'GET' method as specified in app.py.

login.html contains 2 input elements, username and password, as well as a 'Log In' submit button. If no or invalid username/password is provided, an error message will be returned. Else, the user's id will be added to the session dictionary, and user will be redirected to the index.html page with the message 'Welcome back, <username>!' being flashed. Alternatively, the user can continue as guest by clicking on the corresponding submit button. A random id will be generated, stored in session and inserted into the guests table in finalproject.db. The user will be redirected to the index.html page. login.html also contains the 'Reset Password' enclosed in anchor tags, which directs the user to the reset.html page.

After the new password is posted to the '/reset-password' route, the users table will be updated provided that the username exists; afterwhich, the user will be redirected to the login page with the following message flashed: "Password has been reset. Please login again." If the username is not found, the user will be asked to register first.

index.html contains a container with 2 child items, a labelled spelling bee image and a labelled math whiz image, both of which, when clicked, direct the user to english.html and math.html respectively. There is also an audio element referencing an mp3 file. This will be played on loop as coded in javascript.

english.html contains a play audio button which, when clicked, is programmed via javascript to play a spoken word in a randomly-generated list of 10 words. The words are taken from the dictionary file titled large. The 20-second timer concurrently starts counting down, and the user has to submit his answer within this timeframe. If the user attempts to submit an empty entry within the timeframe, he will be prompted to attempt the question and his submission will not be recorded. Unanswered questions will be marked wrong together with misspelt answers, and the correct answer will be shown. After 10 questions, 'THE END' and the user's score will be displayed. If the user has logged in prior to playing the game, his grades will be stored in the pastgrades table of finalproject.db. Logged-in users will be able to see a clickable <a> element called 'Past Grades', which would direct them to a history of their grades for past attempts of spelling and math quizzes.

math.html contains 4 grid items, labbeled 'Addition', 'Subtraction', 'Multiplication' and 'Division' respectively. By hovering over any item, users will be able to select a preferred level of difficulty: 1,2, or 3. This will direct them to the math_qns.html template, which will display a series of randomly-generated questions. Users have to fill in all input boxes. Any entries with unattempted questions will not be recorded; instead, users will be prompted to answer all questions. For wrong answers, their input boxes would be coloured red and the feedback 'Wrong!:( ANS: <ans>' will be returned; for correct answers, the input boxes will be coloured green and the feedback 'Correct!:)' will be returned. The See Score button will also appear, which opens a pop-up window with the socre, home button and replay button when clicked. If the user is logged in, he will be able to see the 'Past Grades' button.

grades.html contains a table with 5 columns (user_id, quiz, level, score, date) and a maximum of 10 rows (the 10 most recent submissions).

requirements.txt prescribes the packages on which this app will depend.
